You may recall our discussion on
the different documentation tools and types
used by security teams
when responding to incidents.
In this video, we'll examine the benefits
that documentation offers, so that you can
better understand how to leverage
documentation as a security professional.
As a security engineer who has developed
a great deal of detection rules,
it was critical for me to document what
it means when those rules are activated,
what severity to assign,
what might lead to false positives, and
how the analysts can confirm
the alert is legitimate.
Without this documentation,
a security operations team can never
scale beyond one or two analysts.
If something was documented,
then there's a record of it happening.
This means that relevant
information can be accessed.
This is known as transparency.
Transparent documentation is useful as a
source of evidence for security insurance
claims, regulatory investigations,
and legal proceedings.
You'll learn more about
documentation processes that
help to achieve this in
an upcoming section.
Documentation also
provides standardization.
This means that there's
an established set of guidelines or
standards that members of an organization
can follow to complete a task or workflow.
An example of creating standardization
through documentation is establishing
an organization's security
policy, processes, and procedures.
This helps in maintaining quality of work
since there are set rules to follow.
Documentation also improves clarity.
Effective documentation not only gives
team members a clear understanding
of their roles and duties, but
it also provides information
on how to get the job done.
For example, playbooks that provide
detailed instructions prevent uncertainty
and confusion during incident response.
The security field is constantly changing,
attacks evolve,
and regulatory requirements might change.
This is why it's important to maintain,
review, and
update documentation regularly
to keep up with any changes.
As a security professional, you'll likely
juggle documentation responsibilities
alongside your other tasks.
By taking the time to write down your
actions, you'll recall facts and
information.
You may even notice some gaps in
the previous actions you took.
The time you spend documenting is
valuable not only for you, but
for your entire organization.